Simple Food, Simply Deliciousabout
recipes
Cookbook
Shop
blogger resources
Subscribe
FacebookInstagramPinterestRSSTwitterYouTube
Caramelized Shiitake Mushroom Risotto


When you’re craving carbs and comfort, risotto is your dish. We’ve made risotto a couple times for the blog before and you all seem to love it. So, with my newfound love for caramelized mushrooms, I couldn’t have imagined a better way to serve up a new spin on risotto. Shall we?

The base for this 10-ingredient, 30-minute recipe starts with warmed vegetable broth, which you can make yourself (for the win), or just grab some store-bought (our favorite brand is Imagine).
Next come shallot and shiitake mushrooms, which are sautéed until golden brown. Ideally, the mushrooms start to dry out a little and become deep golden brown and caramelized for the ultimate hearty mushroom flavor.
Caramelization happens when the mushrooms have plenty of space to touch the pan without overlapping, so use your largest pan or pot to ensure they have plenty of room to swim.


Once caramelized, it’s time to add your rice, some white wine, and fresh herbs. This is where the flavor begins to really develop.
Lastly, add vegetable broth a little at a time, keeping a consistent low simmer and stirring frequently until the rice achieves an “al dente” texture – soft with a little bite.

Once the rice is done, turn the heat off, add your vegan parmesan cheese (or just some nutritional yeast or other vegan cheese of choice), and stir to combine.
Mmm – cheesy, hearty carbs.

We hope you LOVE this risotto! It’s:
Hearty
Cheesy
Extremely flavorful
Comforting
Easy to make
Customizable
& So delicious
This would make a great weeknight meal when you’re craving something comforting and nourishing and need it on the table fast. It would also be great for hosting, especially when paired with something like our Best Vegan Meatballs, Best Whole Roasted Cauliflower, Vegan Ricotta Sun-dried Tomato & Pesto Salad, and your favorite red or white wine.
If you’re into risotto, also be sure to check out our Mushroom & Leek Risotto, and Creamy Vegetable Risotto!
If you try this recipe, let us know! Leave a comment, rate it, and don’t forget to tag a photo #minimalistbaker on Instagram. Cheers, friends!



 Print


4.96 from 49 votes 

Caramelized Shiitake Mushroom Risotto

Easy-to-make vegan risotto infused with sautéed shallot and caramelized shiitake mushrooms! Hearty, flavorful, and incredibly satisfying. 


Author: Minimalist Baker





Prep Time 10 minutes 

Cook Time 20 minutes 

Total Time 30 minutes 



Servings: 4 


Category:

					Entree				


Cuisine:

					Gluten-Free, Italian-Inspired, Vegan				


Freezer Friendly

					1 month				


Does it keep?

					4-5 Days				


Ingredients
US Customary - Metric 
BROTH


3 1/2 - 4
cups
vegetable broth 
(or store-bought)




RISOTTO


2
Tbsp
avocado or olive oil
(if avoiding oil, sub water)


3/4
cup
thinly sliced shallot


1/4
tsp
each sea salt and black pepper


2
cups
sliced Shiitake mushrooms, hardy / woody stalked removed
(or other similar mushroom)


1
Tbsp
coconut aminos
(or tamari // soy sauce)


1
Tbsp
chopped fresh thyme 
(or sub dried)


1
cup
arborio rice
(works best here - we recommend not subbing other grains)


1/4
cup
dry white wine 
(or omit)


1/4
cup
vegan parmesan cheese
(plus more for serving // or sub nutritional yeast)




FOR SERVING (optional