



Skip to content




About
Start Here
Pantry
Culture
Travel
Shop
Video
 
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
Youtube
 

 







Recipe Index
Course

Appetizer
Beverage
Breakfast
Dessert
Main Dish
Salad
Side Dish
Snack
Soup + Stew


Dietary

Gluten-Free
Healthy
Low-Carb
Vegan
Vegetarian


Ingredient

Beef
Chicken
Chocolate
Egg
Matcha Green Tea
Pork
Rice + Noodle
Seafood
Tofu
Vegetable


Preparation

Baking
Easy
Hot Pot
One-Pot/One-Pan
Pressure Cooker
Under 30 Minutes
Under 5 Ingredients


Type

Bread
Cake
Condiment + Sauce
Cookie
Main Dish
Noodle + Pasta + Dumpling
Rice + Donburi
Sandwich
Sushi + Sashimi


Favorite

Bento
Classic Washoku
Classic Yoshoku
College Meal
Japanese Drama Inspired
Kid-Friendly
Most Popular
Regional Food
Teriyaki


How To

Cooking Tip
Cutting Technique
Kitchen Guide
Make from Scratch







 































Brussels Sprouts with Bacon Recipe


 Jump to Recipe  Discussion 



function fbs_click() {
                    u = location.href;
                    t = document.title;
                    window.open('http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=' + encodeURIComponent(u) + '&t=' + encodeURIComponent(t), 'sharer', 'toolbar=0,status=0,width=626,height=436');
                    return false;
                }









 

My mom left for Japan after visiting for 2 weeks.  While she was here, we went to Monterey/Carmel the first weekend and Seattle the 2nd weekend.  During the weekdays, we spent a lot of time at parks where my son proudly rode his bicycle (ahem, still with training wheels) and my daughter showed off her monkey bar skills.  My mom also saw her granddaughter’s confident face during her very first swimming lesson, and at the same time she also learned her grandson often gets into trouble during swim lessons because he never pays attention to the teacher.  I’m glad she got to see some of our daily life and enjoyed her stay with us.

So now that my 2-week “offline” holiday is over, I’m back 100% to my blogging world.  Today I want to share a veggie recipe.  You might have been aware that I had been sharing nothing but deep fried food and ice cream for several posts in a row.  My friend had recommended this recipe to me but I tweaked a little bit from the original recipe by adding fresh thyme, and changing the portion of seasonings.  It was really easy to make and very delicious.  In addition Brussels sprout contains lots of good nutrition and vitamins!  I hope you give it a try next time you see Brussels sprouts in your neighborhood grocery store.
Have a wonderful week everyone.  Enjoy the rest of summer with kids before school starts this month!

Don’t want to miss a recipe? Sign up for the FREE Just One Cookbook newsletter delivered to your inbox! And stay in touch on Facebook, Google+, Pinterest, and Instagram for all the latest updates. Thank you so much for reading, and till next time!


5 from 1 vote 

Print


Brussels Sprouts with Bacon and Thyme


Prep Time
5 mins


Cook Time
25 mins


Total Time
30 mins

 


My friend had recommended this recipe to me but I tweaked a little bit from the original recipe by adding fresh thyme, and changing the portion of seasonings.  It was really easy to make and very delicious.  In addition Brussels sprout contains lots of good nutrition and vitamins! 


Course:

					Side Dish				


Cuisine:

					American, Japanese				


Keyword:

					caramelized brussel sprout, roasted brussel sprout				


Servings: 2 


Author: Nami



Ingredients



10
Brussels Sprouts


1
Tbsp
extra virgin olive oil


2
slices
applewood smoked bacon


2-3
strings
thymes
(fresh)


2
tsp
apple cider vinegar


Small pinch
kosher/sea salt (use half for table salt)


Freshly ground black pepper





Instructions



Gather all the ingredients.Bring a large pot of water to a boil and salt it generously.



Trim the bottom of Brussel sprouts, leaving the core intact, and cut in half. Cut bacon crosswise into ½ -inch strips.



When the water boils, throw in the Brussel sprouts and cook uncovered for 6 minutes, until crisp-tender. Drain in a colander and set aside.



Meanwhile in a large frying pan, heat a tablespoon of oil on medium high heat. Cook bacon, stirring occasionally, until it gets crispy. Then remove the bacon to plate and set aside.



Heat the pan to medium high heat and add Brussels sprouts and thyme in the same pan. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes or until they brown.



Stir in the apple cider vinegar, (salt,) pepper, and bacon and serve warm.






Recipe Notes
Adapted from Food Network.
 
 
 All images and content on this site are copyright protected. Please do not use my images without my permission. If you’d like to share this recipe on your site, please re-write the recipe in your own words and link to this post as the original source. Thank you.
 



 
 




Did You Make This Recipe?
If you make this recipe, snap a pic and hashtag it #justonecookbook — We love to see your creations on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter!



Make It Into A Meal 







Chicken Curry チキンカレー











How To Cook Japanese Rice on the Stove











Japanese Spinach Salad with Sesame Dressing (Horenso Gomaae) ほうれん草の胡麻和え











Pickled Daikon 大根の漬物








posted on:
                Aug 01, 2011            

filed in:
                · Recipes · Autumn · Christmas · Easy · Party Food · Pork · Stovetop · Thanksgiving · Under 30 Minutes · Vegetable · Winter  ·
            

Written By:
Nami 






 


Previous Post
Cantinetta Luca @ Carmel-by-the-sea








 


Next Post 
Spaghetti Meat Sauce








function fbs_click() {
                    u = location.href;
                    t = document.title;
                    window.open('http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=' + encodeURIComponent(u) + '&t=' + encodeURIComponent(t), 'sharer', 'toolbar=0,status=0,width=626,height=436');
                    return false;
                }













 Love Our Recipes?
Buy our best-selling e-cookbook for 33 more easy and simple recipes!


Purchase Today!






5 Secrets to Japanese Cooking!
free email series
Simple Meals & Authentic Flavors!


 Subscribe
