Simple Food, Simply Deliciousabout
recipes
Cookbook
Shop
blogger resources
Subscribe
FacebookInstagramPinterestRSSTwitterYouTube
Black Bean Plantain Enchilada Bake


Friends, behold one of the best things that’s ever come out of my kitchen: a savory, saucy, Black Bean Plantain Enchilada Bake! Just 10 ingredients required for this incredibly flavorful, hearty, comforting dish. Let’s do this!

This isn’t your average enchilada bake, as it relies on roasted slices of plantains in place of tortillas, which not only add a naturally sweet balance but also keep this recipe both gluten- and grain-free!
Just check out those plantains roasted until golden brown and slightly caramelized – swoon!

The next layer is black beans simply spiced with cumin and sea salt. We went with canned to save time, but you could also make our 1-Pot Black Beans from Scratch if you’d rather!

All that’s left is sauce, and we went with two: a combination of our Easy Red Enchilada Sauce and this Creamy Cashew Queso.
The two together make this dish saucy, cheesy, smoky, and utterly delicious. Now, let’s layer.

Layering is my favorite part because it’s so darn fun. Start with sauce, then plantains, then beans, cheese sauce, and so on and so forth until you have a multilayer, flavor-packed masterpiece that’s ready for the oven. Just a quick bake and it’s ready for your dinner table!


We hope you LOVE this enchilada bake! It’s:
Hearty
Smoky
Savory-sweet
Cheesy
Fiber-packed
Versatile
& So delicious
This would make such a delicious meal for both weeknight dinners and hosting friends. It can also be prepped ahead of time, refrigerated, and baked later on to save time!
While delicious on its own, this bake would also pair well with Garlicky Guacamole + Baked Plantain Chips, Easy Red Salsa and chips, Mexican Quinoa Salad Cups with Avocado Dressing, 7-Layer Vegan Mexican Dip, and Ginger Beer Margaritas!
If you try this dish, let us know! Leave a comment, rate it, and don’t forget to tag a photo #minimalistbaker on Instagram so we can see what you come up with. We sincerely hope you enjoy this dish! Cheers, friends.



 Print


4.94 from 44 votes 

Plantain Black Bean Enchilada Bake

A flavorful twist on classic enchiladas with roasted plantains, black beans, smoky enchilada sauce, and cashew queso! Just 10 ingredients required, hearty, flavorful, and so delicious! 


Author: Minimalist Baker





Prep Time 30 minutes 

Cook Time 1 hour 5 minutes 

Total Time 1 hour 35 minutes 



Servings: 12 


Category:

					Entree				


Cuisine:

					Gluten-Free, Mexican-Inspired, Vegan				


Freezer Friendly

					1 month				


Does it keep?

					4-5 Days				


Ingredients
US Customary - Metric 
PLANTAINS


4
large
ripe, spotty plantains


2
Tbsp
coconut oil, melted
(or sub other neutral oil)




BLACK BEANS


2
15-oz cans
black beans
(well drained  // 2 3/4 cups cooked beans)


2
tsp
ground cumin


Sea salt to taste




CHEESE SAUCE


1 1/4
cup
raw cashews


4
Tbsp
nutritional yeast


1/2
tsp
sea salt


1/4
tsp
garlic powder


1/2
tsp
ground cumin


1/2
small
chipotle chili in adobo sauce
 (optional