Simple Food, Simply Deliciousabout
recipes
Cookbook
Shop
blogger resources
Subscribe
FacebookInstagramPinterestRSSTwitterYouTube
Curried Cauliflower Rice with Lentils & Crispy Shallot (Mujadara-Inspired)


Have you ever tried mujadara? If not, you’re totally missing out.
What is Mujadara?
Mujadara is a satisfying vegetarian dish with Middle Eastern and Arab influences. It’s traditionally made with rice, lentils, and caramelized onions, making it incredibly affordable and satisfying.
The spices can range in simplicity from just salt, pepper, and cumin to more complex flavors like cinnamon, lemon peel, and cayenne pepper.
What Makes our Version Unique?

It’s made with cauliflower rice instead of rice to keep it grain-free.
It’s made with way less oil (with options to make it completely oil-free!).
The spices are simplified as we rely on cumin, coriander, and our go-to DIY Curry Powder.
The shallots are crispy instead of soft to add more texture!
We include optional dates at the end for a bit of sweet to balance out the salt.



To start, cook your lentils in vegetable broth so they get tender and flavorful but not mushy. Then prepare your shallots!
To keep this recipe grain-free we opted to toss our shallots in chickpea flour and salt and use cauliflower rice instead of rice.
To keep this recipe low/no oil, we include options for baking instead of pan-frying so the shallots still get nice and golden brown without the extra oil.
If you’d prefer more tender vs. crispy shallot, simply pan sauté (opting out of the crispy coating) in a little oil or water over medium-low heat until golden brown and tender.


Once your lentils and shallot are prepared, all that’s left to do is cook your cauliflower rice.
Sauté with curry powder and cumin seed, the cooked lentils, and half of the crispy shallot, reserving the remaining shallot for serving!

We hope you love this dish! It’s:
Easy to make
Flavorful
Comforting
Customizable
Satisfying
& Incredibly delicious
This would make the perfect dish for when you’re craving quick comfort. If you’re wondering what to pair it with, we’ve got you covered.
What to Pair with Mujadara

Hummus from Scratch
Classic Vegan Falafel (GF)
Simple Baba Ganoush
Hemp Seed Tabbouleh Salad
Mediterranean Baked Sweet Potatoes
Vegan Lentil Fesenjan

Try this recipe? Let us know by leaving a comment and rating, and tagging a photo #minimalistbaker on Instagram! Cheers, friends.



 Print


4.84 from 18 votes 

Curried Cauliflower Rice with Lentils & Crispy Shallot (Mujadara-Inspired)

A grain-free, healthier take on Middle Eastern-inspired mujadara with cauliflower rice, lentils, and crispy shallot! A satisfying, affordable, flavorful side dish or main. 


Author: Minimalist Baker





Prep Time 20 minutes 

Cook Time 35 minutes 

Total Time 55 minutes 



Servings: 4 (Servings)


Category:

					Entree				


Cuisine:

					Grain-Free, Vegan				


Freezer Friendly

					No				


Does it keep?

					2-3 Days				


Ingredients
US Customary - Metric 
LENTILS


3/4
cup
green or brown lentils*
(we recommend soaking overnight or buying sprouted)


2 ¼
cups
(low sodium) vegetable broth 
(sub up to 1/2 with water — RESERVE remaining liquid after cooking)




CAULIFLOWER RICE


1
medium head
cauliflower, “riced” 
(~4 cups as recipe is written)




SHALLOT


2
cups
thinly sliced shallot 
(or sub diced onion)


1/2
cup
chickpea flour (or brown rice flour or all purpose flour if not grain-free)


1/2
heaping tsp
sea salt


1-2
Tbsp
avocado oil, or more as needed 
(see notes on reducing or omitting oil)




THE REST


1
Tbsp
avocado or olive oil 
(or sub water)


1
tsp
cumin seed


1
tsp
coriander seed


1-2
Tbsp
Curry Powder 
(or sub store-bought)


Sea salt to taste
(~1/2 tsp as recipe is written)


2
medjool
dates, pitted and finely chopped 
(optional