Simple Food, Simply Deliciousabout
recipes
Cookbook
Shop
blogger resources
Subscribe
FacebookInstagramPinterestRSSTwitterYouTube
Vegan Lentil Nut “Meatloaf”


Friends, it’s been a long time coming, but my take on a vegan “meatloaf” is here (just in time for the holidays)! And it’s so very delicious. Let’s do this!

This recipe is simple, requiring just 10 ingredients and simple methods. I relied on canned lentils (don’t judge) to save time and dishes! Feel free to do the same and proceed to act like you made everything from scratch (I won’t tell).

The base for this loaf is cooked sweet potatoes, mushrooms, lentils, nuts (we went for walnuts and pecans), and fresh thyme. Tomato paste adds moisture and hearty flavor, Worcestershire adds that “umami” effect, and salt and pepper help round everything out. All that’s left is to stir in some gluten-free bread crumbs for texture and transfer to a loaf pan!

For a glaze – I know it’s so basic – we just went with ketchup! It’s simple, and it outperformed more elaborate glazes! Who knew?


We hope you LOVE this loaf! It’s:
Hearty
Satisfying
So flavorful
Comforting
Simple to make
& Incredibly delicious
This would make the perfect entrée or side for the holidays! It’s tasty on its own, but it would be elevated if served with our Easy Vegan Gravy and Perfect Mashed Potatoes! Major swoon.
If you’re into hearty plant-based entrées, also be sure to check out our Smoky BBQ Black Bean Burgers (which inspired this recipe!), 1-Pot Golden Curry Lentil Soup, Black Bean Plantain Enchilada Bake, and The Best Vegan Meatballs!
If you try this recipe, let us know! Leave a comment, rate it, and don’t forget to tag a photo #minimalistbaker on Instagram. Cheers, friends!



 Print


4.57 from 112 votes 

Vegan Lentil Nut “Meat” Loaf

Incredible vegan lentil "meatloaf" with wholesome, whole-food ingredients like lentils, nuts, sweet potato, and mushrooms! Just 10 ingredients required for this flavorful, comforting entrée. 


Author: Minimalist Baker





Prep Time 30 minutes 

Cook Time 30 minutes 

Total Time 1 hour 



Servings: 8 (Slices)


Category:

					Entree				


Cuisine:

					Gluten-Free, Vegan				


Freezer Friendly

					1 month				


Does it keep?

					4-5 Days				


Ingredients
US Customary - Metric 
VEGETABLES


2
Tbsp
coconut or avocado oil 
(DIVIDED // if avoiding oil, sub water)


3
heaping cups
thinly sliced shiitake or cremini mushrooms


1
Tbsp
vegan worcestershire or coconut aminos 
(ensure vegan and gluten-free friendly)


2
cups
sliced and peeled sweet potato 
(1/4-inch rounds)




THE REST


2
cups
raw nuts or seeds 
(we prefer a mix of walnuts and pecans)


2
Tbsp
fresh thyme 
(or sub dried)


2
cups
cooked brown or green lentils 
(rinsed and well drained)


1/2
tsp
each sea salt and black pepper 
(plus more to taste)


4
Tbsp
tomato paste


2
Tbsp
vegan worcestershire or coconut aminos 
(ensure vegan and gluten-free friendly as needed)


1/2
cup
gluten-free bread crumbs 
(we like Ian’s gluten-free panko* // If not gluten-free, use regular breadcrumbs)




GLAZE optional