Simple Food, Simply Deliciousabout
recipes
Cookbook
Shop
blogger resources
Subscribe
FacebookInstagramPinterestRSSTwitterYouTube
Cashew-Crusted Cauliflower “Steak”


Friends, put everything you know about cauliflower steak behind you. We’re entering a new era: the era of the CRISPY, COATED, BAKED cauliflower steak!
Not only is this recipe incredibly flavorful, colorful, and satisfying, but it also requires just 10 basic ingredients! Let me show you how it’s done.

The base for this recipe is raw cashews blended into a meal with arrowroot starch. For spices we went for sea salt, garlic powder, smoked paprika, cayenne, and curry powder. And this combination coats the cauliflower “steaks” in the most beautiful, bright-orange way!

Before dipping our “steaks” in the crust mixture, we must steam the cauliflower until it’s just barely tender, but not quite cooked. This helps ensure the cauliflower is done in the center by the time it crisps on the outside.


After a quick dredge in an almond “buttermilk” mixture, it’s time to coat (and I mean COAT) your “steaks” in this gorgeous crust. Swoon!
Just a light drizzle of oil before baking, and we’re practically there!

We hope you LOVE these cauliflower “steaks”! They’re:
Crispy on the outside
Tender on the inside
INCREDIBLY flavorful
Colorful
Versatile
& SO Delicious
This would make the PERFECT plant-based entrée (or side), especially when served on top of a healthy dollop of hummus with a simple date-lemon relish (major flavor boost!). These were so satisfying, but we were still shocked to learn that each “steak” boasts more than 13 grams of protein!
Into cauliflower? Try our Shawarma Roasted Cauliflower Steaks, The Best Whole Roasted Cauliflower, Cauliflower Banh Mi Sandwich, Spicy Red Curry Cauliflower Wings, and these Peanut Butter Banana Green Smoothie Bowls (yes to cauliflower in a smoothie).
If you try this recipe, let us know! Leave a comment, rate it, and don’t forget to tag a photo #minimalistbaker on Instagram. Cheers, friends!



 Print


4.98 from 37 votes 

Cashew-Crusted Cauliflower “Steak”

INCREDIBLE Cashew-Crusted Cauliflower "Steak"! 10 ingredients, flavorful, crisp on the outside, tender on the inside. A delicious side or entrée with plenty of protein! 


Author: Minimalist Baker





Prep Time 20 minutes 

Cook Time 40 minutes 

Total Time 1 hour 



Servings: 4 (Servings)


Category:

					Main Course				


Cuisine:

					Gluten-Free, Mediterranean-Inspired, Vegan				


Freezer Friendly

					No				


Does it keep?

					3-4 Days				


Ingredients
US Customary - Metric 
CAULIFLOWER


1
large
head cauliflower
(or sub 2 small for 1 large) 




ALMOND BUTTERMILK


1
cup
unsweetened plain dairy-free milk
(cashew milk works best!  — we prefer Forager brand)


1
Tbsp
lemon juice




COATING


1 ½
cups
raw cashews 
(or sub other nut, such as pistachios or almonds, though we haven't tested and can't guarantee the results)


1
tsp
sea salt 
(plus more to season cauliflower before coating)


1/4
tsp
cayenne pepper
(optional